- [Instructor] So we just got done creating a project,
and we've downloaded it.
Now it's time to take a look
at what comes with a Spring Boot project
from Spring Initializr.
Now, I'd like you to open up your IDE
and open up the code that you downloaded
and move to wherever you move it on your directory.
And I've done that just here.
If we open up the learning-spring,
you will see that we have a bin directory.
Now, this bin directory came from the exercise files,
so you need to grab that out
and drop it in your learning-spring.
This is not something that would've come
from the download directory itself.
Now, if we scroll down,
you can open up the source directory.
And we're going to start in source, main, java.
You'll see that we have an application class
called LearningSpringApplication.
Now, Initializr named that
based on our configuration for Spring,
but you'll see that this is annotated
with @SpringBootApplication,
and it also has our main method.
And this is what starts a Spring Boot application,
just like any application, it's the main method.
That annotation @SpringBootApplication,
and we're going to talk a little bit about annotations later,
tells the application context,
when we run this as a Spring application,
to use this as the base for component scanning
as well as auto-configuration
because it is @SpringBoot and not just @Configuration.
Now, if we open up the resources directory,
you'll notice we have a static folder, a templates folder,
and those we got because we used the web package.
We also have an application.properties file.
Now, currently this is empty,
but this is where we would put any of our properties files
that we are going to use
to control the configuration of the application context.
You'll notice there's also a test directory,
and we got a single test for free.
Now, you may have noticed when you were
running your application in the previous video
that some ASCII art with the word Spring came up.
And if you read around there,
it says that it was testing your application.
What gets tested by default
is just that the application context loads
by calling this SpringBootTest.
We're going to leverage testing a lot later in the course,
but just know for now that we're testing our application
from the very beginning,
whenever we run build or run on this application.
Now, we also got a gitignore.
We got a HELP.md that will help you with some of the details
that you may need when using Spring.
We got some Maven commands, and these are useful
if you don't have Maven on your machine,
you can use these to run Maven commands
without downloading Maven.
It will do the download for you.
The real meat and potatoes, however,
comes from our pom.xml file.
Here, you'll see very standard POM definition
that matched what we chose in Spring Initializr.
You're also going to see some details
about the artifact and the group
and where this application lives.
Now, if we keep scrolling down,
you will see that we have a dependency added,
and that is spring-boot-starter-web,
which is what we selected in Initializr.
You're also going to get spring-boot-starter-test.
Again, testing comes for free with Spring Boot
because it's expected that as a developer, you write tests.
There's also a spring-boot-maven-plugin,
and that allows us to do a lot of the things that we need
to get an executable JAR file
when we run a Maven package command.
Now, the final thing that I want to show you
is I want to go through the list of external dependencies
that we got by simply creating a Spring Boot application.
You'll see, we got some logging information.
We got some JSON documentation through Jackson Core.
We also got jsonpath, which came from testing.
We've got some Jakarta information for J2EE.
As we scroll down a little bit,
you'll see that we also got different logging frameworks.
So we've got log4j, we've got some Logback.
Now we get into the embedded Tomcat.
We have a configured embedded Tomcat.
We saw that when we ran the application and got a 404.
And then we've got JUnit 5
and several other things brought in to help us test,
and some AOP stuff.
But let's take a look at that Tomcat once again
by opening up source, main, resources,
go to the static directory,
and I want you to create a new file called index.html.
Now, I'm going to build an HTML file using my IDE.
You may not be able to do that.
You may have to put the postfix on it of HTML
and then code some of what I'm going to get for free.
Nonetheless, you can get to the same spot.
Now, all I want to do is put in a title here of Landon Hotel,
and that will make a little bit more sense later.
And we're going to simply put in an h1,
Welcome to Landon Hotel.
Now, if we run our application at this point in time,
and I'm just going to use my IDE to run it,
if your IDE isn't clear how to do the running,
look at the documentation,
or you can just simply run a Maven package
like we did before with a java-jar.
Now, I still have my web browser loading localhost:8080.
This time, I'm just going to refresh that page,
and you'll see now we've been served a static web page.
Can't do a lot with static webpages,
but we have an application server up.
It's serving data to our browser,
and we're running it all with Spring Boot
by simply adding one file.
And that really is where the power of Boot comes from
when starting an application.